# Glossary of Mathematical and AI Terms

Text snippets for use in reports. Please keep alphabetical.

## K-fold cross-validation

Cross-validation is a robust method for determining the effectiveness of
a mathematical model which is learned from data.

In K-fold cross-validation, the data sample is split into K subsamples.
Of the K subsamples, a single subsample is retained as the test data,
and the remaining K âˆ’ 1 subsamples are used as training data. The
cross-validation process is then repeated K times, with each of the K
subsamples used exactly once as the test data. The results are then
averaged to give the final score.

The main advantage of this method is that it can use more of the data
for training without compromising the accuracy of the testing. Another
advantage is that it avoids hidden overfitting, which can occur if the
training/test split is manually selected to give best results.
 
The disadvantage is that is is slower than using a single split into
test and training datasets.

## Neural Network
*Neural networks* are a family of classifiers inspired by nerve cells.
A single neuron is a linear classifier, and a network combines multiple
neurons to allow more complex patterns to be detected. Neural networks
are started in a random configuration and trained by hill-climbing.

## Radial basis function networks

A radial basis function network fits data into clusters. These are
modelled as Gaussian balls with a fixed variance (the "radial basis
functions" which give this technique its name). It then classifies
points based on their distance to each cluster.

Training involves two stages. First clustering is used to position the
nodes, e.g. k-means clustering since the clusters are gaussian balls.
Then a linear classifier (e.g. a single neuron) is trained on the output
from the nodes.


## Support Vector Machine 

A *support vector machine* (SVM) is a classifier that uses optimisation to
find a hyperplane which maximizes the margin between the two data sets.
Although the core algorithm is linear, a *kernel* is typically used to
allow non-linear patterns to be found. 

